## 8.20 Group Meeting — Notes
Attendees:
- Dr. Cass Hall
- Dr. Jason Terry
- Lainey Gammon
- Annie Mehta

### To-Dos
- When logging into Sapelo2, ask for more memory--otherwise may obstruct simulation quality.

### HCA Project Discussion
- Question: Can we use HCA to reveal ground truths when clustering protoplanetary dataset, or will it merely cluster based on known existing biases?

- What parameters does HCA cluster by?
  - Intrinsic vs. Observed?
 
- What can we compare clustering results to?
  - **Jason:** Contrastive Learning has shown some success on known/previously-used dataset; CL can also show distribution of parameters (e.g. mass ratios, etc).
 
- Discussed [Tanaseichuk, 2015](https://github.com/annadmitrieff/Classwork-and-Notes/blob/main/FALL%2024/RESEARCH/DR.%20HALL%20RESEARCH/Notes%20%26%20Lit%20Review/0.%20Pre-Reading/Tanaseichuk_2015.pdf): hybrid method of k-means clustering combined with agglomerative clustering for improved efficiency.
  - Little success with k-means clustering alone when applied to disc dataset — more success when combined?
 
- Using existing dataset supplemented with self-gravitating discs.
  - Enables us to bring in other parameters, e.g. mass ratios.
  - Vertical Shear Instability (VSI)?

- Discussed implementation of grid-based simulations in combination with smoothed-particle hydrodynamic simulations.
  - Difficult to implement in combination; some discussion of switching over to exclusively grid-based.
  - [Pencil](http://pencil-code.nordita.org/), [Athena++](https://www.athena-astro.app/)

### Developments in SPH Code
- Historically, when simulating gravitationally-unstable discs, we have modified the *temperature* component of the *Toomre-Q Parameter* equation to cool the disc until some threshold of instability.
- This is not representative of the process of gravitational instability in actuality, but serves as a sufficient model for efficient simulation purposes.
  - In true physical cases, vertical infall from latent clouds infall on discs.
  - This is difficult to simulate with both grid-based simulational code (MHD) and SPH code (something to do with boundary conditions).

- Daniel Price & Cristiano Longarini: new PHANTOM update that may be more compatible with realistic methods?
  - Question: is there any meaningful difference in cooling-dominated vs. infall-dominated simulated discs?
  - Price & Longarini: tried it, meeting with Hall on Monday, giving talk on Thursday!

- Gravitational instability is important!
  - Canada Nature paper involving kinematics of gravitational instability.
  - [Dr. Hall et al.](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/abac17) have a 2020 paper as well!

- Grav. instability is specifically very important in planet-forming discs, but people didn't always think so!
  - Question: are there kinematic differences in gravitationally stable vs. unstable discs? More or less spirals?
  - *Toomre-Q* $\leq$ 2 $\implies$ pretty spirals!

- [Hazano & Alexander 2011](https://research.monash.edu/en/publications/global-gravitational-instabilities-in-discs-with-infall)
  - Used 2D simulations (fairly unreliable).
  - Modes spectrum much more dominated by lower m-modes in stables mass ratio.
  - We now have 3D simulation capabilities!
  - Question (Jason): population synthesis—what happens with fragments?
    - Simulation attempted with barytropic cooling & magnetic field (very messy).
    - Dr. Hall suggested attempting polytropic cooling & magnetic field. 
