## Goldwater Scholarship Infosession Notes
### To Do:
- Create comprehensive CVs & info packets for letters of recommendation.
  - Have Elizabeth Hughes look over CV. 
- Hand-deliver to main recommenders (Dr. Hall, Dr. Royal, Dr. Canterella, Dr. Nandana, Dr. Song).
- Once application opens, plan research essay.
  - Have Elizabeth Hughes look over application and research essay.
  - If Jessica is to look over writing, send it in BODY of email.

### General Tips:
- Applications are read based on topic and not by location of submissions, but regional diversity is appreciated (e.g. good to note that I'm from New York).
- 2nd year spots are more selective (harder to convince readers of your commitment), so reapply in 3rd year if unsuccessful.
- Letters of reccomendation can be reused (or slightly modified) for REUs, so get them in early so that you can start working on REU applications as well.
- A big component of the application is convincing readers if I'm actually going to follow through with the PhD pipeline.
  - Long-long term goals don't have to be partial to PhDs: they can be industry-research oriented (or government, e.g. Goddard!)
  - Long-term goals can be uncertain so long as PhD/research goals are.

### Regarding Letters of Rec:
- 3 LORs will be submitted to the National committee, but up to 6 can be considered for the institutional committee.
- Non-faculty letters can be sent to the institutional committee; not reccomended to use for National.
- Letters should be specific to the field of your desired PhD, or in supplementary fields.
- Letters should speak specifically about performance.
- Computational letters are always a good thing.

- Letter Writers:
  1. Dr. Hall:
     - She can speak to the technicality of the project, my proactivity as a researcher, field-specific work, long-term potential.
  2. Dr. Royal:
     - She can speak to my collaborative abilities while working with data with methods relevant to my research.
  3. Dr. Cantarella:
     - He can speak to my performance in a computational course, my success (if I was successful) in a very hard class, how I approached problems.
  4. Dr. Nandana:
     - He can speak to my grant writing success, fellowship participation, community impact, accessibility work.
  5. Dr. Song:
     - In addition to the above, he could provide more technical/authoritative credentials because of his employment and experience?
  6. David Seiden:
     - May not necessarily provide a letter, but could equip Dr. N and Dr. S with relevant information.
  7. Dr. Ahmadoghlu:
     - Emphasis on his position as an Emory scholar & not at FSA: can attest to work with CubeSat & astronomy club.

### Regarding Essays:
- Research essay is 3 pages, has strict formatting; two-column templates are permitted.
  - Two-column template may be difficult for math & astrophysics formulas.
- Research PIs should offer insight regarding technical content of essay.
  - Debrief paper in Wednesday meetings with Dr. Hall, small group meetings with grad & postdoc students.
- 'Newness' and impact are good (e.g. gravitational instability was thought to be irrelevant in the past).
 
- Main focus of research essay should be my current project.
  - However, I can use my previous work in physics education to allude to grant winnings, fellowships, funding history.
-  Research paper has to focus on one project, though; it *can* be a future proposal, but not recommended.

- Research essay should be written in 1st person.
- Research essay should address *your* contribution to the project, not the entire journal article.
  - What was *your* impact relevant to the field?
  - What are the broad implications of your work?
- Research essay should address hypotheses, research questions, methods, results, and interpretations of results.
  - More like an extended abstract.

- 'What You Did' is important:
  - HCA project is great in this regard because much of the work was self-initiated, and Dr. Hall knows that.
  - Readers are interested in what niche contributions you made in larger lab research.

- You can discuss stuff you've built on in the past for the introduction if it is important to mention, and then emphasize my current project relevant to my interests and the bulk of my work.

### The Process:
- Pre-Application opens Tuesday the 3rd after Labor Day.
- Institutional round due Nov 8th-ish.
  - UGA can put forward 4 students from all campus applicants.   
- National deadline is during end of January.


	
